.\" Written by Kurt Lust, kurt.lust@uantwerpen.be for the LUMI consortium.
.TH man 1 "7 May 2026" "0.2" "pushover command"

.SH NAME
\fBpushover\fR \- Send notifications using the pushover service (pushover.net).

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpushover\fR is a simple tool to push messages to the pushover service in a safe way.
Credentials can be stored in a configuration file so that they cannot be seen as
arguments of a command in the process list. The tool uses libcurl to compose and 
send the message using the https protocol.

The tool can be configured via a configuration file. The name of that configuration
file is determined at compile time and can be found using \fBpushover --help\fR and
is stored in your home directory. It is best to set the permissions to 600, i.e.,
group and others have no access to the file, as it is the best place to store the
credentials that are needed to send a message.

The credentials consist of both a user key and an API token. To obtain those
credentials:

.IP \[bu] 2
Create an account on pushover.net, or log in to your account if you already have one.
Your user key will appear on the page that you get just after logging on (you may need
to log out and log in again if you just signed up).

.IP \[bu] 2
Towards the bottom of the profile page that you get after logging in to pushover.net,
you can see a list of your applications and it offers you the option to create a new
one. Create an application if you don't have one yet that you want to use for this
configuration. If you then click on the application in the list of your applications,
the page that you see then will clearly show you you API Token/Key which is what
you need for the API token.

.PP
The configuration file has the following format:

.EX
; This is a comment line
[pushover]

api-token = XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
user-key = XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
title = New alert
sound = cashregister
message = My default message
.EE

All key-value pairs are optional, but we highly recommend to store the user key and API token
in a configuration file and not specify them on the command line as then they can be intercepted
by other users and used to spam you with notifications.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-a\fR, \fB--api-token\fR
Specify the API token on the command line, overwriting what may be set in the
configuration file. It is not recommended to use this option as the API token can
appear in the process list if suitable options are used to see running processes.
.TP
\fB-c\fR, \fB--configuration-file\fR
Specify the configuration file to use instead of the default one.
.TP
\fB-d\fR, \fB--debug\fR
Print additional debug information.
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
Print help information about pushover
.TP
\fB-m\fR, \fB--message\fR
Specifies the message to be sent. This argument is optional. If a text string
is specified without flag, it will be taken as the message.
.TP
\fB-n\fR, \fB--no-configuration-file\fR
Do not read the configuration file, but use only command line arguments.
This is useful for a quick try if you have not yet created a configuration file.
.TP
\fB-s\fR, \fB--sound\fR
Specify the sound to use in pushover from the list of pushover-supported sounds
that you can see with \fBpushover --help\fR. This argument is entirely optional,
and if not specified on the command line or in the configuration file, a default
will be used.
.TP
\fB-t\fR, \fB--title\fR
Specify the title for the message. This argument is entirely optional, and pushover
will use the name of the pushover application if not specified in either the configuration
file or the argument list.
.TP
\fB-u\fR, \fB--user\fR
Specify the user key for pushover, overwriting what is in the configuration file.
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--version\fR
Show the version of pushover and quit.

.SH AUTHOR
Kurt Lust, University of Antwerpen, for the LUMI consortium.
