.\" Written by Kurt Lust, kurt.lust@uantwerpen.be for the LUMI consortium.
.TH man 1 "7 May 2026" "0.2" "pushslack command"

.SH NAME
\fBpushslack\fR \- Send notifications so Slack.

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpushslack\fR is a simple tool to push messages to tSlack in a safe way.
Credentials can be stored in a configuration file so that they cannot be seen as
arguments of a command in the process list. The tool uses libcurl to compose and 
send the message using the https protocol.

The tool can be configured via a configuration file. The name of that configuration
file is determined at compile time and can be found using \fBpushslack --help\fR and
is stored in your home directory. It is best to set the permissions to 600, i.e.,
group and others have no access to the file, as it is the best place to store the
credentials that are needed to send a message.

This tool supports two communication modes with Slack, though both require setting
up a Slack app. The primary mode is communication via `chat.postMessage`, while the
fallback method is via a webhook. In both cases a Slack app has to be created.
In the case of communication via `chat.postMessage`, the messages will appear in 
the "Apps" section in the workspace under the name of the app while in the 
webhook case, messages appear under your own name in "Direct messages". Even though
the webhook communication is easier to implement, this may not be desirable as you 
may want to use messages to yourself as some kind of note taking also.

To set up for `chat.postMessage` communication method:

.IP \[bu] 2
If you don't have a suitable Slack workspace yet, create one via the Slack web app
https://app.slack.com.

.IP \[bu] 2
Create a Slack app from scratch via the Slack API dashboard at https://api.slack.com/apps.
Create that app in the workspace where you want to receive your messages.

.IP \[bu] 2
In the app, under "OAuth and Permissions", scroll down the page to "Scopes" and add the 
"Bot Token Scope" "chat:write".

.IP \[bu] 2
Now you have to install or re-install the app in the workspace you created which can also be 
done from the "OAuth and Permissions" screen, a little higher up, and in "Channel for webhook", 
select your app under "Direct Messages".

Now you can find the "Bot User OAuth Token" (starts with \fBxoxb-\fR) which you will need to send 
messages. This is the argument for \fBbot-token\fR in the configuration file or the 
\fB--bot-token\fR command line option (see below).

.IP \[bu] 2
You also need to find your slack member ID in the workplace: Click on your profile picture in Slack. 
Select "Profile" in the menu. Then in the right screen with your profile, click "More" 
(the three vertical dots) and finally "Copy member ID". It will likely start with U.
This is the argument for \fBmember-id\fR in the configuration file or the
\fB--member-id\fR command line option (see below).

.PP
To set up for the webhook communication method:

.IP \[bu] 2
If you don't have a suitable Slack workspace yet, create one via the Slack web app
https://app.slack.com.

.IP \[bu] 2
Create a Slack app from scratch via the Slack API dashboard at https://api.slack.com/apps.
Create that app in the workspace where you want to receive your messages.

.IP \[bu] 2
Enable Webhooks: In the app settings, click "Incoming Webhooks" and toggle it to "On."

.IP \[bu] 2
Add Webhook to Workspace: Click "Add New Webhook" at the bottom of the screen from the previous bullet. 
When prompted to choose a channel, select your own name (the "Direct Messages" section).

.IP \[bu] 2
Copy the URL: It will look like \fBhttps://hooks.slack.com/services/T.../B.../XXXX/fR.
This is the argument for \fBwebhook-url\fR in the configuration file or the
\fB--webhook-url\fR command line option (see below).

.PP
The configuration file has the following format:

.EX
; This is a comment line
[slack]

webhook-url = https://hooks.slack.com/services/T.../B.../XXXX
bot-token = XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
member-id = XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
message = My default message
.EE

All key-value pairs are optional, but we highly recommend to store webhook-url,
bot-token and member-id in a configuration file and not specify them on the 
command line as then they can be intercepted
by other users and used to spam you with notifications.
You need either \fBbot-token\fR and \fBmember-id\fR or \fBwebhook-url\fR.
If both are specified, \fBpushslack\fR will use the chat.postMessage method.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-b\fR, \fB--bot-token\fR
Specify the bot token for the chat.postMessage communication method 
on the command line, overwriting what may be set in the
configuration file. It is not recommended to use this option as the bot token can
appear in the process list if suitable options are used to see running processes.
.TP
\fB-c\fR, \fB--configuration-file\fR
Specify the configuration file to use instead of the default one.
.TP
\fB-d\fR, \fB--debug\fR
Print additional debug information.
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
Print help information about pushslack.
.TP
\fB-m\fR, \fB--message\fR
Specifies the message to be sent. This argument is optional. If a text string
is specified without flag, it will be taken as the message.
.TP
\fB-n\fR, \fB--no-configuration-file\fR
Do not read the configuration file, but use only command line arguments.
This is useful for a quick try if you have not yet created a configuration file.
.TP
\fB-u\fR, \fB--member-id\fR
Specify the memberID for the chat.postMessage communication method,
overwriting what is in the configuration file.
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--version\fR
Show the version of pushover and quit.
.TP
\fB-w\fR, \fB--webhook-url\fR
Specify the webhook URL to use for the webhook communication method, overwriting
what may be set in the configuration file.
It is not recommended to use this option as the bot token can
appear in the process list if suitable options are used to see running processes.

.SH AUTHOR
Kurt Lust, University of Antwerpen, for the LUMI consortium.
